a coal mine is a happy mind but most
people especially in this day and age so
it seems
do not have calm minds I've always been
a chronic worrier and however my
condition improved I often catch myself
overthinking and over analyzing
situations either in the past or in the
future people that are loners can be
very prone to these mind States because
generally they tend to think more and
interact less with people oftentimes
negative thinking patterns go together
with mind states that are destructive in
this video I will show you five of these
mind States and what you can do about
them
[Music]
one gilt there are two types of gilt the
first one is that a person is guilty of
something he or she has done something
bad and therefore is guilty this guilt
is factual cannot be denied and isn't
necessarily unhealthy it's just the way
it is the second type of guilt is
problematic this is a mind state that
makes you think about mistakes you've
committed or not committed without
knowing what to do about them you
constantly think about the things you've
done which leads to negative and
unreasonable thoughts about yourself
examples of this you failed a test at
school and now you think I'm a worthless
human being or you don't earn the
minimum salary that society tells you to
make and now you think see I'm a loser
in worst cases like cheating on a
partner I think it's a good thing to be
aware of your mistake and the suffering
this has caused to your partner and
repent for it
however bearing a cross of guilt the
rest of your life isn't going to help
anyone
guilt is a paralyzing mind state that
leads to suffering self-hatred and
losing your self-confidence as a
consequence of this people that are
burdened with guilt will start to
believe that everything bad that happens
is their fault which will lead to even
more self-hatred it's a negative spiral
there are several things we can do about
guilt like forgiving ourselves change
the things we can and accept the things
we can't introspection and reflection
communicating with your environment and
simply check if your negative self view
is similar to the views about you and
lastly calm your mind to attachment in
Buddhism attachment is seen as a path to
suffering attachment is not to be
confused with true love and appreciation
for others romantic love for that matter
which is often projected in our culture
as our ultimate concern of them
manifests itself as an unhealthy form of
attachment that leads to many negative
emotions like hate and jealousy grief
and anger you can be completely in love
with a woman one day but hate her with a
passion the next day when she doesn't
answer your text messages ask yourself
does real love transformed to hate at
the blink of an eye
it
doesn't because this isn't real of its
attachment attachment means that you
have an inflated desire of not wanting
to be separated from a certain object or
person the opposite of that is a version
the Stoics see desire and a version has
two sides of the same coin both
instances produce stress an example if
you are attached to a person you will
suffer when that person leaves you but
if you averse a person you will suffer
when that person comes near you
moreover we could say that in both cases
you're attached to a certain outcome not
getting that outcome causes pain we can
also be attached to certain views and
ideas about the world there are
different things we can do about
attachment like replacing attachment by
unconditional love practicing letting go
studying the nature of human emotions
and accepting the impermanence of things
3 jealousy the mind state of jealousy
has some overlap with attachment we're
jealous you want to have what others
have you might be jealous of someone's
partner material possessions job etc the
problem with this mind state is that it
builds resentment towards the person
that you're jealous of and builds
resentment towards yourself because you
don't have what they have this is a form
of suffering which eats up the energy
you can use to actually work on yourself
instead of feeling jealous towards
people you can be inspired by them or
what the Buddhists would recommend be
joyous about other people's good fortune
and be happy for them the positive
vibrations this creates will bring more
happiness and joy in your own life and
prevent that you suffer because of other
people's success there will always be
people more successful than you what a
miserable existence it is to suffer
every time you meet someone who actually
has the things you secretly want there
are different things we can do about
jealousy like replacing jealousy with
being happy for others and detachment
from not a version to external things
for fear the four letters of fear can be
seen as an aggravation for false
evidence appearing real we fear future
events this leads to worrying about the
future and
xiety in our mind we create all kinds of
different scenarios that could come true
but we often forget that these are
nothing more than fantasies I've been
battling with anxiety for many years and
I realize now that a great chunk of my
thinking is dedicated to worrying about
the future mostly fear is based on
thoughts that do not represent reality
especially when it comes to phobias the
reasoning behind phobias is often flawed
sometimes we fear things that are not
dangerous like the fear of spiders not
the poisonous ones and there's also
something called agoraphobia which is
the fear of dancing I won't deny that
there are things in life that we should
watch out for but letting these things
put us in a perpetual state of anxiety
and worry is that romantic to our health
there are different things we can do
about attachment like using rationality
to challenge your flawed thoughts
cognitive behavioral therapy is a tool
for that which is actually based on
stoicism accepting your thoughts and
calming the mind by meditation is
another option and researching or even
exposing yourself to the thing you're
afraid of helps as well 5 anger the
Dalai Lama once said and I quote when
reason ends then anger begins
therefore anger is a sign of weakness
and quote this doesn't mean that anger
isn't just many people have a good
reason to be angry the problem with
anger is its destructiveness anger can
truly sabotage your life some people are
in a chronic state of anger and
resentment and however this may be
completely justifiable their anger eats
them up inside and creates a wall
between them and the rest of the world
therefore righteous anger is the same as
righteous cancer both have a right to be
there and possibly with a very clear
cause but both will destroy you being
angry at someone is like picking up a
piece of hot coal to throw at that
person you'll burn yourself in the
process I used to be a very angry dude
and sometimes I still can be although I
realize now that I'm wasting my time and
energy there are different things we can
do about anger like forgiveness and
compassion also watching your thoughts
closely before you explode instead of
actually exploding
a good idea it takes restraint to
withhold yourself from an angry outburst
but if you do it it will save you and
your environment a lot of damage in many
cases the damage you inflict is
irreversible that's it thank you for
watching
[Music]